README.md, before:

# Simple tail viewer for log files

## Purpose
I work on different systems where `tail` like command can be not available. Another reason 
is
my log file entries contain a timestamp in milliseconds since the epoch. The program converts
the information in a human readable format.

## Recommended project settings
If you use [RDS](https://github.com/vernisaz/rust_dev_studio) for operating to the project,
the following settings are recommended:
```
# property file settings-tail.prop on 10-03-2025 Friday, 10:29:28 -0800
projectnp=no
ai_server_url=
colapsed_dirs=
autosave=yes
user=
persist_tabs=no
theme=Vibrant Ink
proj_conf={"compile_debug":"rb build","compile_release":"rb -Dmode=release build","debug_app":"rb -- -n 4 -c README.md","run_app":"","test_app":"rb test","package_app":"rb package"}
project_home=projects/simlogtail
```

## Command line arguments
Surprisingly, but AI doesn't give any simple and powerful command line arguments processor.
The list of `clap`, `pico-args`, `lexopt`, `args`, and  `docopt` looks ridiculous.

Not a big deal, the simple tail uses an own arguments parsing module. 

Define the arguments first,
```Rust
let mut cli = CLI::new();
cli.opt("n", OptTyp::Num)?.description("Number lines")
    .opt("v", OptTyp::None)?.description("Version").opt("h", OptTyp::None)?;
```

You can process the arguments after,
```rust
let lns = match cli.get_opt("n") {
    Some(OptVal::Num(n)) => *n as usize,
    _ => 15usize
};
if cli.get_opt("v") == Some(&OptVal::Empty) {
    return Ok(println!("\nVersion {VERSION}"))
} else if cli.get_opt("h") == Some(&OptVal::Empty)  || cli.args().len()  != 1 {
    return Ok(println!("simtail [opts] <file path>\n{}", cli.get_description()?))
}
tail_of(&cli.args().first()?, lns)?;
```

If you have arguments in a form like - *-Xname=value*, then you can define them 
using the code bellow
```rust
cli.opt("D", OptTyp::InStr)?.description("A definition as name=value");
// and then read their presences in the command line
let d_o = cli.get_opt("D");
if let Some(OptVal::Arr(d_o)) = d_o {
    for (i,d) in d_o.into_iter().enumerate() {
        println!("opt[{i}] {d:?}");
    }
}
```

## Like the arguments processor?
Until it isn't separated in a dedicated crate, you can simply include the processor in your project:
```Rust
mod cli;
use crate::cli::{CLI,OptTyp,OptVal};
```
and then use it for parsing command arguments as shown above.

## How to build

1. Obtain [RustBee](https://github.com/vernisaz/rust_bee) 
2. Check out [Simple Time](https://github.com/vernisaz/simtime) and build (unless  already did that)
3. Run *rb*

## What to improve
AI solution for viewing the tail works great, but for small files, where probably just scrolling
isn't a big deal. How to rewrite the code making looking in the tail of multi terabyte files in a snap?
Sure, you can do that!

Commit message:

added a note how build colored crate

README.md, after:

# Simple tail viewer for log files

## Purpose
I work on different systems where `tail` like command can be not available. Another reason 
is
my log file entries contain a timestamp in milliseconds since the epoch. The program converts
the information in a human readable format.

## Recommended project settings
If you use [RDS](https://github.com/vernisaz/rust_dev_studio) for operating to the project,
the following settings are recommended:
```
# property file settings-tail.prop on 10-03-2025 Friday, 10:29:28 -0800
projectnp=no
ai_server_url=
colapsed_dirs=
autosave=yes
user=
persist_tabs=no
theme=Vibrant Ink
proj_conf={"compile_debug":"rb build","compile_release":"rb -Dmode=release build","debug_app":"rb -- -n 4 -c README.md","run_app":"","test_app":"rb test","package_app":"rb package"}
project_home=projects/simlogtail
```

## Command line arguments
Surprisingly, but AI doesn't give any simple and powerful command line arguments processor.
The list of `clap`, `pico-args`, `lexopt`, `args`, and  `docopt` looks ridiculous.

Not a big deal, the simple tail uses an own arguments parsing module. 

Define the arguments first,
```Rust
let mut cli = CLI::new();
cli.opt("n", OptTyp::Num)?.description("Number lines")
    .opt("v", OptTyp::None)?.description("Version").opt("h", OptTyp::None)?;
```

You can process the arguments after,
```rust
let lns = match cli.get_opt("n") {
    Some(OptVal::Num(n)) => *n as usize,
    _ => 15usize
};
if cli.get_opt("v") == Some(&OptVal::Empty) {
    return Ok(println!("\nVersion {VERSION}"))
} else if cli.get_opt("h") == Some(&OptVal::Empty)  || cli.args().len()  != 1 {
    return Ok(println!("simtail [opts] <file path>\n{}", cli.get_description()?))
}
tail_of(&cli.args().first()?, lns)?;
```

If you have arguments in a form like - *-Xname=value*, then you can define them 
using the code bellow
```rust
cli.opt("D", OptTyp::InStr)?.description("A definition as name=value");
// and then read their presences in the command line
let d_o = cli.get_opt("D");
if let Some(OptVal::Arr(d_o)) = d_o {
    for (i,d) in d_o.into_iter().enumerate() {
        println!("opt[{i}] {d:?}");
    }
}
```

## Like the arguments processor?
Until it isn't separated in a dedicated crate, you can simply include the processor in your project:
```Rust
mod cli;
use crate::cli::{CLI,OptTyp,OptVal};
```
and then use it for parsing command arguments as shown above.

## Colorized out
Colors can added in an out of the tail.
The Colored crate can be compiled using [bee.7b](./colorized/bee.7b).

## How to build

1. Obtain [RustBee](https://github.com/vernisaz/rust_bee) 
2. Check out [Simple Time](https://github.com/vernisaz/simtime) and build (unless  already did that)
3. Run *rb*

## What to improve
AI solution for viewing the tail works great, but for small files, where probably just scrolling
isn't a big deal. How to rewrite the code making looking in the tail of multi terabyte files in a snap?
Sure, you can do that!
